# Slice Tools for IceRPC

IceRpc.Slice.Tools allows you to compile Slice definitions (in `.slice` files) into C# code (in `.cs` files) within
MSBuild projects.

This package includes the Slice compiler for C#, `slicec-cs`. This compiler is a native tool with binaries for Linux
(x64 and arm64), macOS (x64 and arm64) and Windows (x64).

Once you've added the IceRpc.Slice.Tools NuGet package to your project, the Slice files of your project are
automatically compiled into C# files every time you build this project.

> When `slicec-cs` compiles a Slice file and the resulting .cs file is identical to the existing output .cs file,
> the existing .cs file is kept as-is; the output file is overwritten only when something changed.

[Source code][source] | [Package][package] | [slicec-cs options][slicec-cs] | [Slice documentation][slice]

## Slice files and Slice directories

The Slice compiler for C# accepts two main inputs:

- the Slice files to compile into C# code (the Slice files)
- directories that contain reference Slice files (the Slice directories)

The Slice compiler parses the reference Slice files found in the Slice directories but does not generate code for them.
They typically contain definitions referenced by the source Slice files.

> The Slice files and Slice directories can overlap.

You select which files to include in your project's Slice files with the `SliceFile` item type. And you select which
directory to include in your project's Slice directories with the `SliceDirectory` item type.

By default, all `.slice` files located in your project's home directory and any of its subdirectories, recursively, are
included in `SliceFile`. You can prevent this auto-inclusion of `.slice` files by setting either
[`EnableDefaultItems`][default-items] or `EnableDefaultSliceFileItems` to `false`. The default value of these properties
is `true`.

You can also add Slice files to your project explicitly. For example:

```xml
<ItemGroup>
    <SliceFile Include="../Greeter.slice"/>
</ItemGroup>
```

This adds `Greeter.slice` to your project's Slice files even though this file is not in the project's home directory or
any of its subdirectories.

> Slice files must have a `.slice` extension.

The Slice directories are an aggregate of the `SliceDirectory` defined in your project (if any) and the `SliceDirectory`
defined in NuGet packages referenced by your project.

For example, if your project's Slice files reference definitions in directory `common/slice`:

```xml
<ItemGroup>
    <SliceDirectory Include="$(MSBuildThisFileDirectory)../common/slice"/>
</ItemGroup>
```

## Slice directory and NuGet package

As a general rule, when you package an assembly in a NuGet package and this assembly exports C# symbols generated by the
Slice compiler for C#, you should include the corresponding Slice files in your NuGet package. This allows consumers of
your NuGet package to easily retrieve these Slice files.

You can also define `SliceDirectory` in this NuGet package so that any project that references this package
automatically sees these Slice files when compiling.

For example, if you pack Slice files into the `slice` directory of your NuGet package, you want to include the following
`ItemGroup` in the `buildTransitive/<PackageName>.props` you pack into this package:

```xml
<ItemGroup>
    <SliceDirectory Include="$(MSBuildThisFileDirectory)../slice"/>
</ItemGroup>
```

The [ZeroC.Slice][zeroc-slice] NuGet package follows this pattern and provides definitions for common Slice types such as
`WellKnownTypes::Duration`, `WellKnownTypes::TimeStamp` and `WellKnownTypes::Uri`.

## SliceFile item metadata

You can use the following `SliceFile` item metadata to customize the compilation and packaging of your Slice files. Each
unique set of options results in a separate execution of `slicec-cs`.

| Name              | Default   | Description                                                                                                                                         |
|-------------------|-----------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| AdditionalOptions |           | Specifies additional options to pass to [`slicec-cs`][slicec-cs].                                                                                   |
| OutputDir         | generated | Sets the output directory for the generated code. This metadata corresponds to the `--output-dir` option of `slicec-cs`.                            |
| Pack              | `false`   | Specifies whether or not to include the items (Slice files) in the NuGet package.                                                                   |
| PackagePath       | slice     | Sets the target path in the NuGet package. Used only when Pack is `true`.                                                                           |
| Rpc               | `icerpc`  | Specifies the RPC framework to generate code for. Possible values: `icerpc`, `none`. This metadata corresponds to the `--rpc` option of `slicec-cs` |

## Generated code and NuGet packages

You need to reference the following NuGet packages to compile the generated C# code:

| Rpc                         | NuGet package reference      |
|-----------------------------|------------------------------|
| `icerpc` or no `Rpc` option | [IceRpc.Slice][icerpc-slice] |
| `none`                      | [ZeroC.Slice][zeroc-slice]   |

Referencing `IceRpc.Slice` makes your project reference transitively [ZeroC.Slice][zeroc-slice], [IceRpc][icerpc] and
[System.IO.Pipelines][system-io-pipelines].

## Build Telemetry

The `IceRpc.Slice.Tools` package collects anonymous build telemetry data about general usage. Participation in this
program is optional, and you may opt out if you’d prefer not to share any information.

This package includes the `IceRpc.SliceBuildTelemetry.Reporter` client, an IceRPC C# client that sends anonymous build
telemetry data over a secure connection to the IceRPC build telemetry server during the compilation of Slice files.
This data includes:

- The IceRPC version.
- The system's operating system, version, and platform architecture.
- The source of the telemetry data (`IceRpc.Slice.Tools`).
- The number of Slice files being compiled.
- The number of Slice reference files.
- Whether or not the build contains Slice1 definitions.
- Whether or not the build contains Slice2 definitions.
- A SHA256 hash computed from the Slice files being compiled.

This data is used to help the IceRPC team understand how the tools are being used and to prioritize future development
efforts. The data is stored in a secure database and is not shared with any third parties.

To opt out of the build telemetry program, add the following property to your C# project file:

```xml
<PropertyGroup>
 <IceRpcBuildTelemetry>false</IceRpcBuildTelemetry>
</PropertyGroup>
```

Setting this property to `false` completely disables the computation and collection of telemetry.

[default-items]: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/project-sdk/msbuild-props#enabledefaultitems
[icerpc]: https://www.nuget.org/packages/IceRpc
[icerpc-slice]: https://www.nuget.org/packages/IceRpc.Slice
[zeroc-slice]: https://www.nuget.org/packages/ZeroC.Slice
[package]: https://www.nuget.org/packages/IceRpc.Slice.Tools
[slice]: https://docs.icerpc.dev/slice2
[slicec-cs]: https://github.com/icerpc/icerpc-csharp/tree/main/tools/slicec-cs
[source]: https://github.com/icerpc/icerpc-csharp/tree/main/tools/IceRpc.Slice.Tools
[system-io-pipelines]: https://www.nuget.org/packages/System.IO.Pipelines
